Imagine the astonished look on the faces of the apostles.
The resurrected Jesus stands before them on the Mount of Olives.
Just before he disappears into the clouds,
Jesus makes this profound declaration as recorded at Acts 1-8.
You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you,
and you will be witnesses of Me in Jerusalem,
in all Judea and Samaria, and to the most distant part of the earth.
What an assignment!
They were to preach the good news of God's kingdom throughout the earth.
Those disciples must have felt overwhelmed and wondered how such a small band of preachers
could ever get this work done.
Ten days later, they received the promised Holy Spirit, and they got to work.
True, they faced many challenges, but that did not stop them.
Three years passed, and the preaching work was expanded to include Gentiles.
We can read the moving account in Acts chapter 10.
First, an angel of God appears to the God-fearing army officer Cornelius.
Then Peter responds to the leadings of God's Spirit to go to the officer's home.
There, Peter gives a thorough witness about Jesus,
not only to Cornelius, but also to his family and friends.
As he concludes his discourse, Peter explains the commission he received to be an evangelizer.
Let's open to Acts 10-42, and note the two main aspects of the preaching work started by Jesus.
Also, he ordered us to preach to the people, and to give a thorough witness,
that this is the one decreed by God to be judge of the living and the dead.
First, Jesus commanded his disciples to preach to the people.
In addition, they were to give a thorough witness.
The disciples were to search out honest-hearted deserving ones.
That would require a thorough coverage of their territory.
In spite of vicious persecution, Christians in the first century obeyed Jesus' command to preach and to bear thorough witness.
And by about 60 of our common era, less than 30 years after the Christians had received their commission,
Paul could write to the congregation in Colossi that the good news had been preached in all creation under heaven.
What a testimony to the power of God's Holy Spirit, and the faith, zeal, and determination of those early disciples.
In the late 1800s, a small group of Bible students rose to the challenge of bearing thorough witness.
An article in the April 1881 issue of Zion's Watchtower had the thrilling title, Wanted 1,000 Preachers.
Today, Jehovah's Witnesses are bearing witness in 240 lands.
But doing so has its challenges.
What are some of those challenges? And what can we do to meet them?
Many of our brothers face the challenge of long distances, climate extremes, rough terrain, and poor travel conditions.
In some areas, just getting to meet people is a challenge.
To add to the challenge, Revelation 146 reminds us that the good news would be declared to every nation and tribe and tongue and people.
This can require learning a new language and understanding different religious, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds.
It can mean coping with unresponsive territories, apathy, and poor living conditions.
Jesus warned that opposers would try to hinder or stop the preaching work.
No doubt you are facing some form of challenge in your local territory.
We cannot begin to give possible solutions to all the obstacles we face today.
But it is helpful to learn how others are coping with their challenges and this can stimulate our thinking to identify ways to meet our challenges.
Let's focus on three Bible principles that will help us to carry out our ministry successfully.
One, trust in Jehovah. Two, be flexible. And three, stay focused.
How can trusting in Jehovah help us? Consider an example.
During the 1990s, Jehovah's Witnesses in France endured an avalanche of negative media reports.
As a result of these vicious attacks, some brothers lost their jobs. Witness children were taunted at school.
Preaching became extremely difficult in some areas. How did they cope?
The turning point came in January 1999. The governing body approved a special campaign to distribute a magazine-sized tract that exposed all of the accusations as false.
Beginning early one Friday morning, witnesses throughout France distributed 12 million copies of the tract in just three days.
This campaign gave them renewed strength and boldness to preach.
In the 19 years that followed, there was a continuous increase in the number of publishers and the ranks of regular pioneers swelled to over 15,000.
If you constantly face a barrage of negative media reports, does this mean that you need a special campaign to meet the challenge?
Not necessarily. Although the campaign was a stimulus, brothers and sisters in France said that what really gave them strength and boldness were the words of 2 Chronicles 32-8. Let's read it.
The setting is in the time of King Hezekiah of Judah. The people were beaten down by the repeated threats and taunts of the Assyrians. What strengthened them?
Speaking about the King of Assyria, King Hezekiah declared,
with him is an arm of flesh, but with us is Jehovah our God to help us and to fight our battles. What was the result? The people were strengthened by the words of King Hezekiah of Judah.
Just hearing this reminder that Jehovah would help them was enough to strengthen the Jews.
Jehovah took action and sent an angel to destroy the enemy army.
Does Jehovah use his angels to help us today?
Note what we read at Revelation 146.
I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven, and he had everlasting good news to declare to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation, and tribe, and tongue, and people. Be sensitive to angelic direction and the leadings of God's Holy Spirit.
If you feel moved to make that one last call, or to speak to the person next to you on the bus, do it. Speak up!
It may well be that an angel is directing you to one who is rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Now let's consider the second Bible principle that will help us to bear thorough witness. Be flexible.
Sometimes just getting to talk to people can be a challenge. To overcome this obstacle, we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi have served in territories that are as different as night and day. Recently they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned to meet the challenges of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi, welcome to our studio. Thank you for inviting us, and we're very happy to have you here. Takanori, you and I go back a long way.
I still remember when you came into Japan Bethel back in 1977, and we served in the same congregation for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had a big change in your life. Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes, my twin brother Nubuaki was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned to Papa Nugini as missionaries.
That was a big change, and here you are working in the rural territory of Papu Nugini.
During your 25 years in Papu Nugini, I understand that you served in the missionary field, in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married in September 1993, and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness, what kind of challenges did you have to overcome?
The people of Papa Nugini are very friendly. They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax. Speak to them face to face, to read the scriptures together, and read with them.
Those don't sound like challenges. Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages, the response of the local people often depended on the response of the village chief.
If he listened, almost the whole village listened. But if his response was negative, the people would walk away and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect and approach the village chief first.
This often, move him to view our visit with favor.
Challenging the cities was mainly security.
It wasn't safe for us to go into some areas alone or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students to come to the Kingdom Hall for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them to attend meetings.
Well, it's obvious that you enjoyed your service in Papu Nugini. But now you're serving as special pioneers in the Myhama congregation.
Just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory where people have deep respect for the Bible.
To a land where less than 1% of the people claim to be Christian.
So what other kind of differences did you find between your territory in Japan now and your missionary territory?
Oh, it's very different.
Tokyo Disneyland is in our territory.
And 70% of homes are in high security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby, in front of the dormant, pressure button, and speak to our camera.
Coming from Papu Nugini, we found it challenging to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions face to face.
Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned to view the camera as our friend.
As your friend, I think most of us find it challenging to speak to a camera.
So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that, as soon as we push the button, our face shows up on the screen inside of the apartment.
We stand on arm lengths from the camera so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly, taking into consideration the dormant and others who may be listening.
We say our greeting about two seconds after we push the button.
Just when we know that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and one smile makes them feel like we can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific appealing introduction and show them respect and consideration.
The people in our territory like to be viewed as successful, not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects.
We prepare a variety of subjects so that they don't hear the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like to be put on a spot.
So instead of asking a question and waiting for them to answer,
we use the teaching method of our trucks and give three possible answers for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results from this intercom preaching?
Since we started to use this method, the number of note homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street, sometimes they say they know us.
Because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent.
And thank you Takanori and Yumi for sharing with us how you have met the challenge of bearing thorough witness
in a variety of territories.
1 Corinthians 9, 22 and 23.
Let's read it.
I have become all things to people of all sorts,
so that I might by all possible means save some.
But I do all things for the sake of the good news in order to share it with others.
Become all things. Do all things.
In other words, be flexible.
Apply the suggestions in the meeting workbook.
Get well acquainted with each tool in the teaching toolbox.
Observe how experienced publishers and pioneers use those tools.
Understand the feelings and circumstances of people in the territory.
Even in the same territory, we may need to use a variety of approaches.
For example, about 40% of the apartment buildings in the Takahashi's territory do not allow the witnesses to enter the lobby.
So they do public and informal witnessing to reach those people.
Now let's consider the third Bible principle.
Stay focused.
At Matthew 6.22, Jesus said,
The lamp of the body is the eye.
If then your eye is focused, your whole body will be bright.
Keeping our eye focused means keeping our life simple in order to concentrate on spiritual matters.
Distractions take our attention and energy away from our responsibility to bear thorough witness.
Before we can teach those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life, we have to find them.
We leave no stone unturned as we search for them at their homes, on the streets, in parks, in stores, and at the workplace.
There's no on-off switch for our preaching work.
Our preaching switch must be on at all times.
Not only do we look for opportunities to preach, but we also make opportunities.
What if our efforts to find interested ones are not fruitful?
Jesus did not say that every human must become a disciple before the end comes.
Rather, He said that the end will come after the good news has been preached in all the inhabited earth,
and a witness has been given to all the nations.
The Apostle Paul stayed focused on his ministry.
May we imitate his positive attitude expressed at Acts 20-24.
Nevertheless, I do not consider my own life of any importance to me
if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus
to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.
The opportunity to bear thorough witness will soon be over.
May we use the remaining time effectively to search for deserving ones and to teach them the truth.
Imitate the faith of Hezekiah and trust in Jehovah.
Learn from the Apostle Paul and be flexible.
Obey Jesus' direction and stay focused.
Then you too can meet the challenge of bearing thorough witness.